

# How to run:

By default, you can just execute the *compile_run.sh*. Make sure that the *config.ini* file is under the current directory.


        ./compile_run.sh


It runs the executable object file twice: One in one-shot mode with command line arguments specified for output image. The other in interactive mode allowing the user to adjust parameters conveniently.

## Interactive mode:
It directly executes the executable object file *main*, which allows interactive operations on the triangle (to be specified in Extra Works).


        ./main

## One-shot mode:
Also, after obtaining the exeutable object file, one can execute with command line arguments to get the output image. Make sure that the *config.ini* is under the same directory as the executable object file.


        ./main -o output.png

*-o* specifies that an output raster image *output.png* should be generated with the parameters given in *config.ini*. It runs one-shot instead of interactively and saves the result in *build* folder (generated by the shell).

# Extra works:
## File for parameters' settings:
A *config.ini* file is used for keeping parameters. It is read every time the program is executed. It helps avoid the extra time caused by recompilations after adjusting parameters and make parameters' adjustments more user-friendly.

The explanations of those parameters are shown below.


**tx, ty, tz**: 
The offsets of x, y, z for translation in the model translation matrix T, respectively. 

**sx, sy, sz**: 
The multiples of x, y, z for scaling in the model scaling matrix S, respectively. 

**p0x, p0y, p0z, p1x, p1y, p1z, angle**: 
Denote rotational endpoints to be P, Q. **p0x, p0y, p0z** represent the x, y, z coordinates of point P under the model coordinate system. **p1x, p1y, p1z** represent the coordinates of point Q under the model coordinate system. Q - P specifies the rotational axis for the model rotation with **angle** specified as rotational angle.

**eye_posx, eye_posy, eye_posz**: 
x, y, z components of the eye position for viewing transform, respectively.

**eye_fov**: Field-of-view for perspective projection.

**aspect_ratio**: The ratio between the length and the width of the near projection plane. 

**zNear**: The z-coordinate value of the near projection plane.

**zFar**: The z-coordinate value of the far projection plane.

**pt, ind**: **pt** refers to the positions of three points (with their respective x, y, z coordinates) for a triangle under model coordinate. **ind** specifies their order of drawing.


## Parameter adjustments under interactive mode:

When executing the program in interactive mode, you can press keys to change parameters on model translation, scaling and rotation to adjust the rasterized triangle's location. Here are the references for the usages of those keys.


        'j': Translate 1 unit left  
        'l': Translate 1 unit right
        'k': Translate 1 unit down
        'i': Translate 1 unit up
        'a': Rotate 10 degree counterclockwise
        'd': Rotate 10 degree clockwise
        'f': scale 0.5 times (w.r.t. the size before any scaling) more along the x axis
        'g': scale 0.5 times (w.r.t. the size before any scaling) more along the y axis
        'h': scale 0.5 times (w.r.t. the size before any scaling) more along the z axis
        'c': scale 0.5 times (w.r.t. the size before any scaling) less along the x axis
        'v': scale 0.5 times (w.r.t. the size before any scaling) less along the y axis
        'b': scale 0.5 times (w.r.t. the size before any scaling) less along the z axis

